Compress away IP and Port using Context IDs (#19)
ietf-wg-masque/draft-ietf-masque-connect-udp-listen: draft-ietf-masque-connect-udp-listen.md

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

This document uses terminology from {{CONNECT-UDP}} and notational conventions
from {{!QUIC=RFC9000}}. This document uses the terms Integer, Boolean and List from
{{Section 3 of !STRUCTURED-FIELDS=RFC8941}} to specify syntax and parsing.

# Proxied UDP Binding Mechanism {#mechanism}

In unextended UDP Proxying requests, the target host is encoded in the HTTP
request path or query. For Bound UDP Proxying, the target is either conveyed in each
HTTP Datagram (see {{format}}), or registered via capsules and then compressed
(see {{contextid}}).

When performing URI Template Expansion of the UDP Proxying template (see
{{Section 3 of CONNECT-UDP}}), the client sets both the target_host and the
target_port variables to the '*' character (ASCII character 0x2A).

> When sending the UDP Proxying request to the proxy, the client adds

Author: Does it need to have "Connect-UDP-Bind" in the response header? Is the following status sufficient, instead?
```
HEADERS
 :status = 200
 capsule-protocol = ?1
```

> When sending the UDP Proxying request to the proxy, the client adds

Reviewer: That's not sufficient because it doesn't allow the client to differentiate between a server that knows this extension and supports it vs an old server that's never heard of this extension and completely ignored the Connect-UDP-Bind header. Echoing is a common tool for determining server support

# Proxied UDP Listener Mechanism {#mechanism}

In unextended UDP Proxying requests, the target host is encoded in the HTTP
request path or query. For Listener UDP Proxying, it is either conveyed in each

> HTTP Datagram, see {{format}} or registered via capsules and then compressed,
> see {{contextid}}.

Reviewer: nit:

```suggestion
HTTP Datagram (see {{format}}), or registered via capsules and then compressed
(see {{contextid}}).
```

Before sending its UDP Proxying request to the proxy, the client allocates an
even-numbered context ID, see {{Section 4 of CONNECT-UDP}}. The client then adds
the "connect-udp-listen" header field to its UDP Proxying request, with its
value set as the allocated context ID, see {{contextid}}. Likewise, the proxy
can allocate and use odd numbered context IDs to send payloads to the client.

> The client and the proxy MUST exchange COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsules in order to

Reviewer: This part of the text is explaining the concept, so it doesn't need to be normative
```suggestion
The client and the proxy exchange COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsules in order to
```

establish which IP a given context ID corresponds to. The context ID can

> correspond to uncompressed payloads to/from any target i.e. any value

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand the last sentence in this paragraph?

Author: Sorry, that's a 4am brainfart

# HTTP Datagram Payload Format {#format}

When HTTP Datagrams {{!HTTP-DGRAM=RFC9297}} associated with this Listener UDP
Proxying request contain the context ID in the connect-udp-listen header field,
the format of their UDP Proxying Payload field (see {{Section 5 of
CONNECT-UDP}}) is defined by {{dgram-format}} when context ID is set to the value
used for uncompressed CONNECT UDP bind and {{dgram-format-compressed}} when

> context ID is any other value.

Reviewer: It's not any other value, because there could be extensions that mean other things

```suggestion
context ID matches one registered for compressed payloads.
```

IP Version:

: The IP Version of the following IP Address field. MUST be 4 or 6.

> It MUST be omitted Context ID is non zero.

Reviewer: Nit: it would be easier to have a separate wire format ascii art for compressed instead of adding "MUST be omitted" to every field here

The context ID is a 62 bit, variable length integer and MUST be specified in each UDP Payload carrying datagram. Context ID of value 0 represents no compression. The client must specify the IP version, IP and port of the target per datagram, see {{format}}.

If the client intends to compress the IP and port information of the target, it must first register a new Context ID with the proxy, and specify a target IP and port via a Compression request Capsule, and the proxy confirms by responding with a Compression Assign CAPSULE see {{capsules}}. Hereon, both the client and the server MAY use that Context ID in its datagrams to suppress all IP/Port information to or from said target respectively.

The IP Length, Address and Port fields are the same as those defined in {{format}}.

# Capsules {#capsules}
This document defines two new capsule types to enable registering target compression information, see {{capsulerequestformat}}:

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_REQUEST (0x04),
  Length (i),
  Target Mapping,
}
~~~
{: #capsulerequestformat title="Compression Request Capsule Format"}

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_ASSIGN (0x05),

>   Length (i),

Reviewer: Since we have COMPRESSION_ASSIGN, does it make sense to have COMPRESSION_REJECT? This is because a compression context requires the receiver to allocate memory, so to defend against memory exhaustion attacks it might be useful to say "nope sorry I'm not going to allocate these resources"

>   Target Mapping,

Reviewer: Since COMPRESSION_ASSIGN is a response, it doesn't need to echo the IP/port, just the context ID - or is there a reason for it?

Author: I was wondering if we should allow the server to assign compressions via odd numbered Context IDs

Author: Since we're reusing COMPRESSION_ASSIGN, maybe we still need thie IP/port etc?

: The unmodified UDP Payload of this proxied UDP packet (referred to as "data
octets" in {{UDP}}).

# Context ID {#contextid}

> A Context ID of value 0 represents no compression. When using context ID 0, the

Reviewer: The no-compression context isn't 0 though right? It's the value allocated on line 111. Maybe we need to give that value a name up there and reuse that name here.

That said, another option could be for us to change the meaning of context ID 0 and use 0 instead of allocating one. But then we have some slight ambiguity when the client sends before receiving the server's HTTP headers (and knowing whether the server supports this extension or not), so we probably want to stick with a non-zero allocated value.

client and server must specify the IP version, IP and port of the target per
datagram, see {{format}}. The client can compress IP and port information using
non zero Context IDs as defined under {{compression}}.
Receiving and forwarding from Context ID 0 is enabled by default, but may be

> disabled using {{restrictingips}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
disabled; see {{restrictingips}}.
```

> ## Header Compression {#compression}

Reviewer: To me "header" makes me think of HTTP headers. How about this:

```suggestion
## Address Compression {#compression}
```

The client MAY choose to map IP and port information per datagram against the
Context ID defined in {{contextid}}. In such a case, the client MUST send a
COMPRESSION_REQUEST capsule (see {{capsulerequestformat}}) with the target
information (see {{targetmappingformat}}) it wishes to compress and the proxy
MUST respond with either a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN (see {{capsuleresponseformat}})
capsule if it accepts the compression request, or a COMPRESSION_REJECT
(see {{capsulerejectformat}}) if it doesn't wish to support compression
(For example, due to considerable memory requirements of establishing a list
of mappings per target per client). If the compression was rejected,
the client and server MUST continue to use uncompressed, Context ID 0 Datagrams

> for the requested target.

Reviewer: Can we add text saying that endpoints MUST NOT use a compressed ID until the peer has accepted it?

Author: We decided that the client could preemptively send compressed packets, accepting the fact that they may fall through

Otherwise, they must exchange compressed datagrams for the given datagram as
described in {{mappings}}.

### Compression Mapping {#mappings}

> If a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN is received by client, the proxy and client MUST

Reviewer: Why only the client receiving this instead of both client and proxy?

maintain a compression mapping from Target to Context ID and update this
mapping whenever new COMPRESSION_REQUEST and COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsules
are exchanged between the two. Upon completing this exchange, the proxy and
the client MUST send each other packets corresponding to a target using the
unique Context ID assigned to the given target, while omitting IP and port
information.

## Restricting IPs {#restrictingips}

The client MAY request the proxy reject any uncompressed targets by sending
it the COMPRESSION_CLOSE (see {{compressioncloseformat}}) capsule with the

> enable field set to true. Upon receiving the request, the proxy MUST echo

Reviewer: What's the motivation for echoing the COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule? Can't the client stop using it when it sends instead of when it receives the echo

back the COMPRESSION_CLOSE with the enable field set to true. Hereon, the
proxy MUST not forward any packets from uncommpressed targets to the client
and MUST drop any UDP  payloads received from unregistered targets.

Likewise, the client MAY choose to re-enable traffic from uncompressed
targets, by sending the COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule with the enable field
set to false and the proxy MUST respond with COMPRESSION_CLOSE with enable
set to false and MUST re-start forwarding uncompressed context ID 0 payloads.

## Capsules {#capsules}

> The Listener capsule types are defined below:

Reviewer: missing newline

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {

>   Type COMPRESSION_REQUEST (0x04),

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand why we need four capsule types. Could we make this work with only two (COMPRESSION_OPEN and COMPRESSION_CLOSE)? Conceptually you need an open one (sent in one direction to request, and echoed to confirm) and a close one (used as a response to an open to reject, and used directly to request closure)

Author: Yes, following this approach now

  Length (i),
  Target Information,
}
~~~
{: #capsulerequestformat title="Compression Request Capsule Format"}

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_ASSIGN (0x05),
  Length (i),
  Target Information,
}
~~~
{: #capsuleresponseformat title="Compression Assign Capsule Format"}

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_REJECT (0x06),
  Length (i),
  Target Information,
}
~~~
{: #capsulerejectformat title="Compression Reject Capsule Format"}

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_CLOSE (0x07),

>   enable (1),

Reviewer: I don't think I understand what the enable bit means, can you elaborate?

Author: Removed it

: The unmodified UDP Payload of this proxied UDP packet (referred to as "data
octets" in {{UDP}}).

# Context ID {#contextid}

> Context ID values MUST always be greater than 0. A payload with value 0 MUST
> be dropped by the receiving party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The context ID 0 was reserved by unextended connect-udp and is not used by this extension.
Once an endpoint has ascertained that the peer supports this extension, the endpoint MUST NOT
send any datagrams with context ID set to 0, and MUST drop any received datagrams with
context ID set to 0.
```

> 

Reviewer: I've put comments inline for this paragraph, but here's an attempt at tweaking the paragraph to explain the concepts without normative 2119 verbs - those come later:

> This extension leverages context IDs (see Section 4 of CONNECT-UDP) to compress the target IP address and port when encoding datagrams on the wire. Either endpoint can register a context ID and the IP/ports it's associated with by sending a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule to its peer. The peer will then echo that capsule to indicate it's received it. From then on, both endpoints are aware of the context ID and can send compressed datagrams. Later, any endpoint can decide to close the compression context by sending a COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule.

> An even context ID MUST be used by clients to send packets to the proxy, and an odd

Reviewer: This isn't quite right. The even vs odd split is for context ID allocation, not for sending packets (see [spec](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9298#name-context-identifiers)).

context ID MUST be used by the proxy to send packets to the client. A Client and

> a proxy MUST exhange COMPRESSION_ASSIGN packets for a given context ID to guarantee

Reviewer: It's unclear to me what this MUST requires me to do. If this is explaining the concept, then we don't need normative text

Author: Removed the MUST, redundant

that all payloads are received and processed by the other party, see

> {{compression}}. They MAY pre-emptively use Context IDs not acknowledged by the

Reviewer: This sentence discusses acknowledging context IDs, but that concept hadn't been introduced yet

Author: The preceeding paragraph cites context ID from section 4 CONNECT UDP. Should I add a one liner to explain it a bit more?

Reviewer: But connect-udp doesn't define the concept of acknowledging context IDs. So I'd either define it quickly or add a forward reference

Author: Added the reference to Context IDs from the original RFC

other party yet, knowing that those packets MAY be lost since the client is not
guaranteed to be ready to receive until it receives the acknowledgement
COMPRESSION_ASSIGN.

## Address Compression {#compression}

> If the client wishes to allocate a Context ID for uncompressed packets,

Reviewer: Now that we've changed how the uncompressed context ID is sent, can you do a search for all instances of the header? I saw one earlier that still says that's how we send the context and that's incorrect since now we just use the header to indicate support for this extension

it MUST exchange the COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule (see {{capsuleassignformat}})
with the proxy with an unused Context ID defined in {{contextid}} with
the IP Length set to zero.

The client and the proxy MAY choose to compress the IP and port information
per datagram for a given target against the Context ID.
In such a case, the client or the proxy MUST send a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule
(see {{capsuleassignformat}}) with the target information (see
{{targetmappingformat}}) it wishes to compress and the other party (proxy or
client respectively) MUST echo back with either a  COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule
if it accepts the compression request, or a  COMPRESSION_CLOSE with the context
ID (see {{capsulecloseformat}}) if it doesn't wish to support  compression for

> the given Context ID (For example, due to \considerable memory requirements of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the given Context ID (For example, due to considerable memory requirements of
```

establishing  a list of mappings per target per client). If the compression was
rejected, the client and proxy MUST use an uncompressed context ID to exhange
UDP payloads for the given target.

### Compression Mapping {#mappings}

> If a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN is received by client or proxy with IP length non zero,

Reviewer: This somewhat contradicts the previous paragraph because it ignores the fact that any endpoint can reject the compression requested by the peer. Perhaps:

When an endpoint receives a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule with a non-zero IP length, it MUST decide whether to accept or reject the compression mapping:
* if it accepts the mapping, first the receiver MUST save the mapping from context ID to address and port. Second, the receiver MUST echo an identical COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule back to its peer.
* if it rejects the mapping, the receiver MUST respond by sending a COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule with the context ID set to the one from the received COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule

Context ID and update this mapping whenever new COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsules
are exchanged between the two. Upon completing this exchange, the proxy and
the client MUST send each other packets corresponding to a target using the
unique Context ID assigned to the given target, while omitting IP and port
information.

The client or proxy MAY choose to unregister any context IDs that it registered
or was registered with it respectively using COMPRESSION_CLOSE
(For example when a mapping is unused for a long time). Another potential use is
{{restrictingips}}.

## Restricting IPs {#restrictingips}

The client MAY at any point request the proxy reject all traffic from uncompressed
targets by using COMPRESSION_CLOSE on the Context ID corresponding to uncompressed
targets effectively acting as a firewall against unwanted or unknown IPs.

## Capsules {#capsules}
The Listener capsule types are defined below:

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_ASSIGN (0x05),
  Length (i),
  Target Information,
}
~~~
{: #capsuleassignformat title="Compression Assign Capsule Format"}

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_CLOSE (0x07),

>   Context ID (i),

Reviewer: Missing capsule length

the given Context ID (For example, due to the memory cost of
establishing  a list of mappings per target per client). If the compression was
rejected, the client and proxy MUST use an uncompressed context ID
(See {{uncompressed}}) to exhange UDP payloads for the given target.

### Uncompressed datagrams {#uncompressed}

If the client wishes to allocate a Context ID for uncompressed packets,
it MUST first exchange the COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule
(see {{capsuleassignformat}}) with the proxy with an unused Context ID
defined in {{contextid}} with the IP Length set to zero.

### Compression Mapping {#mappings}

When an endpoint receives a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule with a non-zero IP
length, it MUST decide whether to accept or reject the compression mapping:

if it accepts the mapping, first the receiver MUST save the mapping from
context ID to address and port. Second, the receiver MUST echo an identical COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule back to its peer.

if it rejects the mapping, the receiver MUST respond by sending a
COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule with the context ID set to the one from the received COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule

> The client or proxy MAY choose to close any context contexts that it registered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client or proxy MAY choose to close any context that it registered
```

or was registered with it respectively using COMPRESSION_CLOSE
(For example when a mapping is unused for a long time). Another potential use
is {{restrictingips}}.

## Restricting IPs {#restrictingips}

If an uncompressed Context ID was set (via {{uncompressed}}), the client MAY at
any point request the proxy reject all traffic from uncompressed targets by
using COMPRESSION_CLOSE (see {{compressionclose}}) on said Context ID.
targets effectively acting as a firewall against unwanted or unknown IPs.

## Capsules {#capsules}

The Listener capsule types are defined as follows:

### The COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule {#compressionassign}

The Compression Assign capsule has two purposes. Either to request the
assignment of a Context ID (see {{contextid}}) to a corresponding target IP:Port.
Or to accept a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request from the other party.

> ~~~ ascii-art

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~
```

Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_ASSIGN (0x1C0FE323),
  Length (i),
  Target Information,
}
~~~
{: #capsuleassignformat title="Compression Assign Capsule Format"}

~~~

> Target Information {

Reviewer: Since this is the4 only use of Target Information, I would recommend inlining it to the definition of the capsule

  Context ID (i),
  IP Version (8),
  [IP Address (32..128)],
  [UDP Port (16)],
}
~~~
{: #targetmappingformat title="Target Information Format"}

The IP Length, Address and Port fields in {{targetmappingformat}} are the
same as those defined in {{format}}. However, the IP version can be set
to 0 when allocating an uncompressed Context ID, as defined in {{contextid}}.

### The COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule {#compressionclose}

The Compression Close capsule serves the following purposes. As a response to
reject a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request and to close or clean up any existing
compression mappings. Once a COMPRESSION_CLOSE has been exchanged between

> endpoints, they MUST NOT use that Context ID until it is re-assigned via a

Reviewer: So as part of the debate around RFC 9298, we ended up deciding that re-registrating context IDs wasn't possible. (I didn't agree with that at the time). So to make life easier, I'd recommend removing "until it is re-assigned via a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN exchange." here. We could fight it later, but let's avoid that debate for now.

Author: Okay sounds good

The client or proxy MAY choose to close any context contexts that it registered
or was registered with it respectively using COMPRESSION_CLOSE
(For example when a mapping is unused for a long time). Another potential use is
{{restrictingips}}.

## Restricting IPs {#restrictingips}

If an uncompressed Context ID was set (via {{uncompressed}}), the client MAY at any point request the proxy reject all traffic from uncompressed
targets by using COMPRESSION_CLOSE (see {{compressionclose}}) on said Context ID.
targets effectively acting as a firewall against unwanted or unknown IPs.

## Capsules {#capsules}
The Listener capsule types are defined as follows:

### The COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule {#compressionassign}

The Compression Assign capsule has two purposes. Either to request the assignment of a Context ID (see {{contextid}}) to a corresponding target IP:Port. Or to accept a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request from the other party.

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_ASSIGN (0x1F1F1F1F),
  Length (i),
  Target Information,
}
~~~
{: #capsuleassignformat title="Compression Assign Capsule Format"}

> ~~~ ascii-art

Reviewer: I know art is in the eye of the beholder, but this isn't really art :P

```suggestion
~~~
```

Target Information {
  Context ID (i),
  IP Version (8),

>   IP Address (32..128),
>   UDP Port (16),

Reviewer: We need to account for the IP version = 0 scenario by making the IP address and port optional

```suggestion
  [IP Address (32..128)],
  [UDP Port (16)],
```

}
~~~
{: #targetmappingformat title="Target Information Format"}

The IP Length, Address and Port fields in {{targetmappingformat}} are the
same as those defined in {{format}}. However, the IP version can be set
to 0 when allocating an uncompressed Context ID, as defined in {{contextid}}.

### The COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule {#compressionclose}

> The Compression Close capsule serves the following purposes. As a response to reject a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request and to close or clean up any existing compression mappings. Once a COMPRESSION_CLOSE is sent for a given Context ID, the sending party MAY reject any datagrams received for that Context ID until it is reallocated through a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN exchange.

Reviewer: Line length, here and throughout

> The Compression Close capsule serves the following purposes. As a response to reject a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request and to close or clean up any existing compression mappings. Once a COMPRESSION_CLOSE is sent for a given Context ID, the sending party MAY reject any datagrams received for that Context ID until it is reallocated through a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN exchange.

Reviewer: We haven't defined what rejecting a datagram means, so I'd say drop

```suggestion
The Compression Close capsule serves the following purposes. As a response to reject a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request and to close or clean up any existing compression mappings. Once a COMPRESSION_CLOSE is sent for a given Context ID, the sending party MAY drop any datagrams received for that Context ID until it is reallocated through a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN exchange.
```

> The Compression Close capsule serves the following purposes. As a response to reject a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request and to close or clean up any existing compression mappings. Once a COMPRESSION_CLOSE is sent for a given Context ID, the sending party MAY reject any datagrams received for that Context ID until it is reallocated through a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN exchange.

Reviewer: I think we should also say that after sending or receiving COMPRESSION_CLOSE, the endpoint MUST NOT send with that context ID any more

> ~~~ ascii-art

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~
```

Capsule {
  Type COMPRESSION_CLOSE (0x1F1F1F20),
  Length (i),
  Context ID (i),
}
~~~
{: #capsulecloseformat title="Compression Close Capsule Format"}

# The connect-udp-bind Header Field {#hdr}

> The "connect-udp-bind" header field’s value is a boolean structured field

Reviewer: This paragraph should explain what the purpose of the header is (to enable this extension)

: The unmodified UDP Payload of this proxied UDP packet (referred to as "data
octets" in {{UDP}}).

# Context ID {#contextid}

This extension leverages context IDs (see {{Section 4 of CONNECT-UDP}}) to compress the target IP address and port when encoding datagrams on the wire. Either endpoint can register a context ID and the IP/ports it's associated with by sending a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule to its peer. The peer will then echo that capsule to indicate it's received it. From then on, both endpoints are aware of the context ID and can send compressed datagrams. Later, any endpoint can decide to close the compression context by sending a COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule.

The context ID 0 was reserved by unextended connect-udp and is not used by this extension.
Once an endpoint has ascertained that the peer supports this extension, the endpoint MUST NOT

> send any datagrams with context ID set to 0, and MUST drop any received datagrams with

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
send any datagrams with context ID set to 0, and MUST silently drop any received datagrams with
```

context ID set to 0.

> An even context ID MUST be used by clients to allocate uncompressed or compressed
> contexts, and an odd context ID MUST be used by the proxy to allocate compressed
> context IDs.They MAY pre-emptively use Context IDs not yet acknowledged by the other party, knowing that those packets MAY be lost since the COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request receiving proxy

Reviewer: nit: this requirement comes from RFC 9298, so we don't need a new MUST. I would instead phrase it as a reference:

```suggestion
As mandated in {{Section 4 of CONNECT-UDP}}, clients will allocate even context IDs
while proxies will allocate odd ones.
They MAY pre-emptively use Context IDs not yet acknowledged by the other party, knowing that those packets MAY be lost since the COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request receiving proxy
```

or client is not guaranteed to be ready to accept payloads until a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN
response is echoed back.

## Address Compression {#compression}

The client and the proxy MAY choose to compress the IP and port information
per datagram for a given target against the Context ID.
In such a case, the client or the proxy MUST send a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule
(see {{capsuleassignformat}}) with the target information (see
{{targetmappingformat}}) it wishes to compress and the other party (proxy or

> client respectively) MUST echo back with either a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule

Reviewer: This echoing MUST is redundant with the following section, can we refactor this to avoid duplicate normative language? For example we can have this paragraph explain the mechanism without normative text, and have the next section go into more details with 2119 language

if it accepts the compression request, or a COMPRESSION_CLOSE with the context
ID (see {{capsulecloseformat}}) if it doesn't wish to support  compression for
the given Context ID (For example, due to considerable memory requirements of
establishing  a list of mappings per target per client). If the compression was
rejected, the client and proxy MUST use an uncompressed context ID (See {{uncompressed}}) to exhange
UDP payloads for the given target.

### Uncompressed datagrams {#uncompressed}

If the client wishes to allocate a Context ID for uncompressed packets,
it MUST first exchange the COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule (see {{capsuleassignformat}})
with the proxy with an unused Context ID defined in {{contextid}} with

> the IP Length set to zero.

Reviewer: Do we still need the "Connect-UDP-Bind" header if we now require this capsule? I guess we still need it to negotiate the use of this extension, but maybe it doesn't carry a context ID any more?

Author: we don't. Should it be set to a boolean 0/1 value?

Reviewer: Boolean SGTM. Though it's not `0`/`1` it's `?0`/`?1` Here's an example of a structured field boolean: https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9297#section-3.4

### Compression Mapping {#mappings}

When an endpoint receives a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule with a non-zero IP length, it MUST decide whether to accept or reject the compression mapping:

if it accepts the mapping, first the receiver MUST save the mapping from context ID to address and port. Second, the receiver MUST echo an identical COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule back to its peer.

if it rejects the mapping, the receiver MUST respond by sending a COMPRESSION_CLOSE capsule with the context ID set to the one from the received COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule

> The client or proxy MAY choose to unregister any context IDs that it registered

Reviewer: We never defined what "unregister" means. I would instead say "close a compression context"

or was registered with it respectively using COMPRESSION_CLOSE
(For example when a mapping is unused for a long time). Another potential use is
{{restrictingips}}.

## Restricting IPs {#restrictingips}

If an uncompressed Context ID was set (via {{uncompressed}}), the client MAY at any point request the proxy reject all traffic from uncompressed
targets by using COMPRESSION_CLOSE (see {{compressionclose}}) on said Context ID.
targets effectively acting as a firewall against unwanted or unknown IPs.

## Capsules {#capsules}
The Listener capsule types are defined as follows:

### The COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule {#compressionassign}

The Compression Assign capsule has two purposes. Either to request the assignment of a Context ID (see {{contextid}}) to a corresponding target IP:Port. Or to accept a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN request from the other party.

~~~ ascii-art
Capsule {

>   Type COMPRESSION_ASSIGN (0x05),

Reviewer: Let's not use low values like 0x5. Start with a 4-byte value

client. The proxy uses the same port to listen for UDP packets from any
authorized target and encapsulates the packets in the Listener Datagram
Payload format, specifying the IP and port of the target and forwards it to
the client. The proxy MUST keep a mapping of Context-IDs to IP Addresses and UDP
Ports. If the client sends a payload defined in {#format} with the IP Version,
IP Address and UDP Port fields, the proxy MUST update its mapping of the context
ID to the provided IP Address and UDP Port. If the client sends a datagram

> without the IP Version, IP Address and UDP Port fields, the proxy MUST use the

Reviewer: How does the receiver know if the version/address/port is included or omitted?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I don't see how either side could know which to expect. I would think we'd need to change context ID, not just use the same one?

: None
{: spacing="compact"}

This document also requests IANA to register the following new "HTTP Capsule Types" maintained at
<[](https://www.iana.org/assignments/masque)>:

Value:

> : 0x04

Reviewer 2: +1 here

> : 0x04

Reviewer: This comment is still relevant

                         IP Address = 203.0.113.33
                         UDP Port = 4321
                         UDP Payload = Encapsulated UDP Payload

/* Omit IP and Port info from future payloads from */
/* 203.0.113.33:4321 until, another target sends a packet */
            <--------  DATAGRAM
                         Quarter Stream ID = 11
                         Context ID = 2
                         UDP Payload = Encapsulated UDP Payload

> /* Mention IP and port in the first packet intended for */

Reviewer: What happens if this packet gets lost?

authorized target and encapsulates the packets in the Binding Datagram
Payload format, specifying the IP and port of the target and forwards it to
the client.

> When the client or proxy send a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule, the proxy or client

Reviewer: This appears to be duplicative of what's on line 201?

> When the client or proxy send a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule, the proxy or client
> respectively either register a mapping from Context ID to the provided target

Reviewer: This isn't quite right, the action on the receiver isn't when the sender sends, it's on reception

```suggestion
When an endpoint receives a COMPRESSION_ASSIGN capsule, it
either registers a mapping from Context ID to the provided target
```

with unauthorized targets. Proxies can either silently discard such datagrams or
abort the corresponding request stream.

Note that if the compression response (COMPRESSION_ASSIGN OR COMPRESSION_CLOSE)
cannot be immediately sent due to flow or congestion control, an upper limit of

> how much it is willing to proxy SHOULD be set to prevent DDOS-ing. The proxy MAY

Reviewer: I think you meant "an upper limit on how many compression responses the endpoint is willing to buffer"

            <--------  DATAGRAM
                         Quarter Stream ID = 11

>                          Context ID = 0

Reviewer 2: I don't think that works — context ID 0 is reserved for the standard UDP datagram format (so no address+port)

Author: Ah I see, We could use any other number I guess. I can swap it out for 2

Reviewer: FWIW this is an extension to connect-udp so it wouldn't be crazy to reuse context ID 0, because in this case datagrams with context ID zero have no logical semantics. Both options make sense

Reviewer 2: Interesting, wasn't clear that connect-udp would allow that — I assumed that's why the draft originally used 2 there.

```
The Context ID value of 0 is reserved for UDP payloads, while non-zero values are dynamically allocated. Non-zero even-numbered Context IDs are client-allocated, and odd-numbered Context IDs are proxy-allocated.
```

Reviewer: Everything's allowed if the extension is negotiated. I guess the nice property of using 2 instead of 0 is that the client can send datagrams before receiving the response headers
